[SG-796] Mobile getting started updates (#29)
bitwarden/contributing-docs: docs/getting-started/clients/mobile/android/index.md

![Android SDK configuration](android-sdk.png)

## Testing and Debugging

### Using the Android Emulator

In order to access `localhost:<port>` resources in the Android Emulator when debugging using Xamarin
studio on your mac natively, you'll need to configure the endpoint addresses using
`<http://10.0.2.2:<port>`\> in order to access `localhost`, which maps the Android proxy by design.

[xamarin-vs]: https://learn.microsoft.com/en-us/xamarin/android/get-started/installation/android-sdk
[android-studio]: https://developer.android.com/studio/releases/platforms

### Using Server Tunneling

Instead of configuring your device or emulator, you can instead use a

> [proxy tunnel to you local server](../../../server/tunnel.md) and have your app connect to it

Reviewer: ```suggestion
[proxy tunnel to your local server](../../../server/tunnel.md) and have your app connect to it
```

directly.

### Push Notifications

> The default configuration for the android app is to register itself to the same environment as

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The default configuration for the Android app is to register itself to the same environment as
```

Bitwarden's QA Cloud. This means that if you try to debug the app using the production endpoints you

> won't be able to receive live sync updates nor passwordless login requests.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
won't be able to receive Live Sync updates or Passwordless login requests.
```

<bitwarden> 

>  So, in order to receive notifications while debugging your app will have to use QA Cloud endpoints for the api and identity or a local server setup where the api is connected to QA Azure Notification Hub.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
So, in order to receive notifications while debugging, you have two options:
- QA Cloud endpoints for the Api and Identity, or 
- Use a local server setup where the Api is connected to QA Azure Notification Hub

```

</bitwarden>

### Testing Passwordless Locally

Before you can start testing and debugging passwordless logins make sure your local server setup is
running correctly ([server setup](../../../server/guide.mdx)). You should also be able to deploy
your Android app to your device or emulator.

:::note

> Debug and testing passwordless is limited by [push notifications](#push-notifications).

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Debugging and testing Passwordless authentication is limited by [push notifications](#push-notifications).
```

:::

Testing passwordless notifications:

> 1. Start your local server (`api`, `identity`, `notification`)

Reviewer: ```suggestion
1. Start your local server (`Api`, `Identity`, `Notifications`)
```

2. Make sure your mobile device can [connect to your local server](#using-server-tunneling)

> 3. [Start web client](../../web-vault/index.mdx), you will need it to make login requests

Reviewer: ```suggestion
3. [Start the web client](../../web-vault/index.mdx), as you will need it to make login requests
```

4. Deploy the Android app to your device or emulator
5. After deployment, open the app, login to your QA account and activate passwordless login requests
   in settings
6. Open the web vault using your prefered browser (ex: http://localhost:8080)

> 7. Enter an email of a know device account and click login with device (you have to login first to

Reviewer: ```suggestion
7. Enter the email address of an account that has previously authenticated on that device (i.e. is a "known device") and click Continue.  When presented with the login options, click click Login with Device.
```

>    make the device known)

Reviewer: ```suggestion
```

![Android SDK configuration](android-sdk.png)

## Testing and Debugging

### Using the Android Emulator

In order to access `localhost:<port>` resources in the Android Emulator when debugging using Xamarin

> studio on your mac natively, you'll need to configure the endpoint addresses using

Reviewer: ```suggestion
studio on your Mac natively, you'll need to configure the endpoint addresses using
```

`<http://10.0.2.2:<port>`\> in order to access `localhost`, which maps the Android proxy by design.

[xamarin-vs]: https://learn.microsoft.com/en-us/xamarin/android/get-started/installation/android-sdk
[android-studio]: https://developer.android.com/studio/releases/platforms

### Using Server Tunneling

Instead of configuring your device or emulator, you can instead use a
[proxy tunnel to your local server](../../../server/tunnel.md) and have your app connect to it
directly.

### Push Notifications

The default configuration for the Android app is to register itself to the same environment as
Bitwarden's QA Cloud. This means that if you try to debug the app using the production endpoints you
won't be able to receive Live Sync updates or Passwordless login requests.

<bitwarden> 
So, in order to receive notifications while debugging, you have two options:

> - QA Cloud endpoints for the Api and Identity, or 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- Use QA Cloud endpoints for the Api and Identity, or 
```

Reviewer: In addition, I think you'll need a blank line before your bulleted list starts; it looks like the markdown isn't formatting it correctly right now.

Author: yup it was broken, fixed it as well.

- Use a local server setup where the Api is connected to QA Azure Notification Hub

</bitwarden>

### Testing Passwordless Locally

> Before you can start testing and debugging passwordless logins make sure your local server setup is

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Before you can start testing and debugging passwordless logins, make sure your local server setup is
```

running correctly ([server setup](../../../server/guide.mdx)). You should also be able to deploy
your Android app to your device or emulator.

:::note

> Debugging and testing Passwordless authentication is limited by [push notifications](#push-notifications).

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Debugging and testing passwordless authentication is limited by [push notifications](#push-notifications).
```

Reviewer: I think I recommended capitalizing this earlier.  After looking at Bitwarden.com and our passwordless docs, it looks like the preference is lowercase.

![Android SDK configuration](android-sdk.png)

## Testing and Debugging

### Using the Android Emulator

In order to access `localhost:<port>` resources in the Android Emulator when debugging using Xamarin
studio on your mac natively, you'll need to configure the endpoint addresses using
`<http://10.0.2.2:<port>`\> in order to access `localhost`, which maps the Android proxy by design.

[xamarin-vs]: https://learn.microsoft.com/en-us/xamarin/android/get-started/installation/android-sdk
[android-studio]: https://developer.android.com/studio/releases/platforms

### Using Reverse Proxy

Since your physical device and server are not directly running on the same machine, it's more
complex to connect them. Although, there is an easy way to solve this problem, connect your mobile
deployment (Emulator or Device) to your local server by creating a reverse proxy for the `api` and
`identity` using [ngrok](https://ngrok.com/). ngrok will create public endpoints for your localhost
server that you can connect to with your mobile app.

1. install `ngrok`, can be done using brew:

```ngrok
brew install --cask ngrok

> ```

Reviewer 2: Just something to note, if you install `ngrok` from their site and sign up with an account, it only lets you use one instance at a time and you have to nuke it along with an auth file buried within hidden folders. Installing with brew gets around this, so maybe a callout about that would be good!

Author: That is a very good catch i'll add it!
